# Hercules

This repository is used to replicate the experiments of article **"Towards Effective Multi-Hunk Bug Repair: Detecting, Creating, Evaluating, and Understanding Indivisible Bugs"** on Hercules. 

**["Harnessing Evolution for Multi-Hunk Program Repair"](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8812131)** proposes Hercules. Since the source code is not provided by the authors, we implement Hercules in this repository according to the description in the paper.



## 1. Modification

> We only reproduced the Hercules-MinusHistory.

### 1.1 Spectrum Based Fault Localization

We use the [GZoltar](https://github.com/GZoltar/gzoltar) to identify potential repair locations. The formula we used in GZoltar is Ochiai.

### 1.2 Identification of Evolutionary Siblings

① We use [soot](https://github.com/soot-oss/soot) to extract program context.

② When comparing two AST nodes N1 and N2, we only use kind compatibility and name similarity. Because there are some nodes, the JDT cannot get their type. 

### 1.3 Patch Generation

We completed the stages of building an abstract syntax tree and generating patches based on [TBar](https://github.com/TruX-DTF/TBar). 

① We change the a field ```isTestFixPatterns``` in ```edu.lu.uni.serval.tbar.AbstractFixer``` from **false** to **true**, so that it can generate more plausible patches.

② We removed some templates and kept only the templates used in PAR, ACS, Elixir, which are cited by the authors in the Implementation part.

③ We transform the patches generated by TBar according to this [rule](./rules.md).

### 1.4 Ranking of Candidate Patches

We use [ODS](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1109/TSE.2021.3071750) to rank the candidate patches, which is also a learning-based ranking model. Because we do not have the ranking model similar to Elixir.



## 2. Environment

- JDK 1.8
- Python 3.8
- [Defects4J 2.0.0](https://github.com/rjust/defects4j)
- [CatenaD4J](https://github.com/universetraveller/CatenaD4J)



### 3. Experiment Setup

- Timeout: 5h



### 4. Excluded Bug

> None



## 5. Installation

#### 5.1 Create the docker image

Use the `Dockerfile` in `./Docker` to create the docker image.

```shell
docker build -t hercules-env .
```

This docker image includes **Defects4J**, **CatenaD4J**, **JDK 1.8**, and **Python 3.8**.

#### 5.2 Create the container with this image

```shell
docker run -it --name hercules hercules-env /bin/bash
```

#### 5.3 Clone the Hercules repository

At the root of this container, we clone the Hercules repository.

```shell
cd /
git clone https://github.com/give-to/Hercules.git
```

#### 5.4 Install Dependencies

After testing, we found that using **pip** in the Docker file might cause image creation to fail, so configuration inside the container is required.

```shell
# Preparing the environment
cd /Hercules
pip install -r requirements.txt
chmod +x run.sh
```



## 6. Quick Test

It takes several minutes to quickly test your installation. (**Note:** In quick test, the `ochiai.ranking.txt` in Chart_18_2 only contains one location! )

```shell
cp location/105SampleBugsResult/Chart_18_2/short.txt location/105SampleBugsResult/Chart_18_2/ochiai.ranking.txt
# Test your environment
./run.sh /CatenaD4JProjects /CatenaD4J ./location/105SampleBugsResult ./test.txt
```

After finishing the repair, the results are in folders: `patches` and `results`.

- `patches`: The generated patches. Its structure is as follows:

```
 patches
 |--- Chart_2_5               :  bugid
 |------ group_1              :  the first siblings
 |--------- 0.txt             :  specific patches, each row is a partial patch
 |------ group_2              :  the second siblings
 |--------- 0.txt             :  specific patches, each row is a partial patch
```

- `results`: The validation results. The plausible patch will show `Pass`.

Note: If you do not get any results, you can go to `/tbar_log/TBar.log` for more information.

## 7. Experiment Reproduction

It may take about **22 days** to finish the entire experiment. You can also modify `105_bugs_list.txt` to determine the bugs to be fixed.

``` shell
cp location/105SampleBugsResult/Chart_18_2/backup.txt location/105SampleBugsResult/Chart_18_2/ochiai.ranking.txt
rm -rf patches/ results/
# Run the whole experiment
./run.sh /CatenaD4JProjects /CatenaD4J ./location/105SampleBugsResult ./105_bugs_list.txt
```

After finishing the repair, the results are in folders: `patches` and `results`.



## 8. Usage

### 8.1 Repair Bugs

In the Hercules directory:

```shell
./run.sh <ProjectsRoot> <CatenaD4JHome> <FLroot> <bugListFile>
```

Where:

- `ProjectsRoot`: the root directory that you want to checkout all CatenaD4J bugs in.
- `CatenaD4JHome`: the root directory of CatenaD4J. 
- `FLroot`: the root directory of ochiai results of all bugs.
- `bugListFile`: a file contains all the bugs to be fixed.

### 8.2 Find Siblings and Generate Patches

The `Hercules-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar` in the root directory contains 3 parts, finding siblings, patch generation and patch ranking. It saves all patches and patch ranking results in `patches` directory. It accepts 4 parameters:

```shell
java -cp Hercules-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar org.example.hercules.Main_NFL <ProjectsRoot> <CatenaD4JHome> <FLroot> <bugListFile>
```

Where:

- `ProjectsRoot`: the all buggy projects' root directory. 

```
ProjectRootDir
| Chart_1_1
|	| 
|	|
| Chart_1_2
|	|
|	|
```

- `CatenaD4JHome`: the root directory of CatenaD4J. 
- `FLRoot`: the root directory of fault localization results. (The file name of fault localization results must be `ochiai.ranking.txt`.)

```
FLRoot
| Chart_1_1
|	| ochiai.ranking.txt
| Chart_1_2
|	| ochiai.ranking.txt
```

- `bugListFile`: A file contains all projectsId that you want to repair.

**Example:**

```shell
# You should have checked out the bugs first.
java -cp Hercules-1.0-SNAPSHOT-jar-with-dependencies.jar /CatenaD4JProjects CatenaD4J ./location/105SampleBugsResult ./105_bugs_list.txt
```

### 8.3 Validation

The `hercules_valid_v2.py` will validate patches under `patches` directory according to patch ranking results, until all patches have been validated or timed out. The patch that shows **Pass** is the `plausible patch`. It accepts 1 parameter:

```
python3 hercules_valid_v2.py <ProjectsRoot>
```

- `ProjectsRoot`: the all buggy projects' root directory. 

**Example:**

```shell
# You should have checked out the bugs and generated the patches first.
python3 hercules_valid_v2.py /CatenaD4JProjects
```



## 9. Structure of the Directories

 ```powershell
 |--- README.md               :  User guidance
 |--- C4J_results             :  Patches and results of CatenaD4J bugs
 |--- Docker                  :  Dockerfile
 |--- location                :  Bug positions localized with GZoltar of CatenaD4J bugs
 |--- scripts                 :  Apply patches to projects
 |--- src                     :  Source code
 ```







